---
lang: en
layout: page
title: Legal Notes - Information for Reports
permalink: /legal_reporting/
---

Information to be provided - Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR") - Personal data (including those of minors) will be processed, by manual and electronic means and without particular processing criteria, in order to process the request made and/or the report reported by ActionAid International Italia Onlus - Via Alserio 22, 20159 Milan (MI) - the data controller. Such data will be processed and stored in compliance with national and European legislation. The conferment of data is optional, but the fundamental information to process the request and the details of the report are essential to be able to carry out the appropriate procedures to meet the needs put forward. In any case, only data that is strictly relevant and essential to provide the services requested or to manage the report will be collected. Please do not release data of a sensitive nature, for which it is essential to give your written consent so that they can be processed. Likewise, please do not provide any information that could lead to the identity of minors. The data may be processed by third parties for purposes instrumental to the management of the project (e.g.: public and rescue agencies, police and public security bodies, judiciary), who will act as autonomous data controllers, required to provide their information on data processing. Furthermore, we inform you that only the images, videos and testimonies sent that do not contain recognizable subjects - and that therefore require a release for their use - may be disseminated, on social networks dedicated to the project (listed on this page: https://www.covid19italia.help/canali/), as well as to the public on information material, public editorials, and/or website or during public events or on media such as print and TV and other channels of dissemination to the public - to make known and document initiatives, projects and institutional activities, in any case always with the mediation of our staff. No compensation is due for the use and diffusion of the above mentioned audio-video contents. Images, sounds and testimonies will be kept in our archives as long as the communication activity and the context of the shooting are objectively significant to represent the activities carried out. Subsequently, they will be deleted, through their destruction and will no longer be reconstructible or traceable to the people involved. Said materials, on the other hand, may be kept further in case of express request by control bodies, judiciary, police forces and to assert or defend rights in court, both by our association and by one or more persons involved in the filming. Responsible for the processing is Marco De Ponte, domiciled at the headquarters of the owner. The processing is authorized to the employees of the area of assistance services, volunteer and communication, the website, information systems and data security. Pursuant to Articles 15-22, GDPR, by writing to the data controller at the above mentioned postal address or e-mail informazioni@actionaid.org, you may exercise your rights to consult, modify, delete and forget and limit the processing of data or oppose their processing. Any withdrawal of consent given, which you may submit at any time, does not affect the lawfulness of the processing based on the consent previously given or on alternative mechanisms to consent permitted by law. You have the right to complain to the supervisory authority to assert your rights. In addition, by writing to the postal address indicated above or by sending an e-mail to informazioni@actionaid.org, you can request the complete and updated list of data processors. The Data Protection Officer can be contacted at dpo.ita@actionaid.org for information on data processing.

The data released is hosted by GitHub whose servers may be located in the USA. GitHub is GDPR compliant and adheres to the Privacy Shield Framework.
